UI System
=========

Keechma allows you to write decoupled, reusable UI components. It’s
still using Reagent to implement and render them — it just adds some
structure to keep things clean.

Untangling the UI
-----------------

The UI is the messiest part of frontend application development. In most
architectures, the components are coupled to the application’s state,
(sometimes) to their parent components and (almost always) to their
child components.

    Most of our components take the entire app state as their data.
    Parent components don’t pass their children sub cursor with just the
    bits they care about, they pass them the whole enchilada. Then we
    have a slew of paths defined in vars, which we use to extract the
    data we want. It’s not ideal. But it’s what we’ve had to do.

    From the `Why We Use Om, and Why We’re Excited for Om
    Next <http://blog.circleci.com/why-we-use-om-and-why-were-excited-for-om-next/>`__
    by Peter Jaros

Peter understands. Most architectures have these two serious traps:

-  **Parent components pass data to their children** — Forcing parent
   components to be aware of the needs of their children makes the “data
   plumbing” complicated, making the system hard to maintain and
   difficult to change.
-  **Global dependence on the application state** — This dependency
   makes testing difficult and reuse impossible.

.. raw:: html

   <table>

.. raw:: html

   <tr>

.. raw:: html

   <td>

You want this…

.. raw:: html

   </td>

.. raw:: html

   <td>

Not this…

.. raw:: html

   </td>

.. raw:: html

   </tr>

.. raw:: html

   <tr>

.. raw:: html

   <td>

.. raw:: html

   </td>

.. raw:: html

   <td>

.. raw:: html

   </td>

.. raw:: html

   </tr>

.. raw:: html

   </table>

With just a little extra code, Keechma allows you to decouple all UI
components. No more plumbing traps.

For example, let’s say that you have a component that renders a list of
users (``user-list``). It is rendered inside a ``user-page`` component
which, in turn, is rendered inside a ``layout`` component. In Keechma,
neither ``user-page`` nor ``layout`` cares about the data that
``user-list`` needs. The user component simply declares its dependencies
in a Clojure record. When it’s rendered, its dependencies are injected
directly.

Instead of passing data around, the only requirement is for the parent
to declare its dependency upon each child. This provides context for the
child component. In our example, ``user-page`` explicitly declares its
dependency on ``user-list`` which will allow it to render the correct
**version** of the component.

Keechma’s UI system allows components to simply declare child
components, each carrying its own data dependencies (if it has them). No
more worrying about what data needs to be sent where.

Data dependencies
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Components declare dependencies on ``subscriptions``. Subscriptions are
functions that receive the ``app-state`` atom as a parameter and return
a subset of the data (They are almost identical to the `Re/Frame’s
subscriptions <https://github.com/Day8/re-frame#subscribe>`__ although
they are not global).

--------------

Again, each component declares both its data and child-component
dependencies. There is an exception: if a child component has no data
dependencies, it can simply be required.

Example:

.. code-block:: clojure

    (defn user-table-renderer [ctx]
      (fn []
        (let [user-list (ui/subscription ctx :user-list)]
          ;; Get the user list subscription, it will be injected from the outside
          [:table
            (for [user @user-list]
              ... render user ...)])))

    (defn user-table-component
      (ui/constructor
        {:renderer user-table-renderer
         :subscription-deps [:user-list]}))
         ;; Declare that this component is dependent on the `:user-list` subscription

    (defn user-page-renderer [ctx]
      [:div
        (ui/component ctx :user-table)])
        ;; Get the correctly bound `user-table` component, it will be injected from the outside

    (defn user-page-component [ctx]
      (ui/constructor
        {:renderer user-page-renderer
         :component-deps [:user-table]}))

    (defn layout-renderer [ctx]
      [:div
        (ui/component ctx :user-page)])
        ;; Get the correctly bound `user-page` component, that knows how to render the user list. It will be injected from the outside

    (defn layout-component
      (ui/constructor
        {:renderer layout-renderer
         :component-deps [:user-page]}))

    (def system
      (ui/system
        {:main layout-component ;; system must have the `:main` component defined
         :user-page user-page-component
         :user-table user-table-component}
        {:user-list (fn [app-state])})) ;; this will be injected to the `user-table` component as the `:user-list` subscription
    ;; returns the bound `:main` component which can be mounted in the page

    (reagent/render-component [system] dom-element)

There you have it, a completely decoupled UI system. The tradeoff is
that you must explicitly declare dependencies for each component.

This way of building your UI has other advantages too. For instance, if
later you build a better ``user-list`` component, only the system
definition needs to be changed:

.. code-block:: clojure

    (def system
      (ui/system
        {:main layout-component ;; system must have the `:main` component defined
         :user-page user-page-component
         :user-table my-super-awesome-user-component}))
    ;; returns the bound `:main` component which can be mounted in the page

Neither ``layout`` nor ``user-page`` requires refactoring.

Composing systems
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Keechma also allows UI system composition. If your app has many
different functional areas, each could be defined as its own system:

.. code-block:: clojure

    (def user-page-system
      (ui/system {...}))

    (def news-page-system
      (ui/system {...}))

    (def main-app-system
      (ui/system
        {:user-page user-page-system
         :news-page news-page-system}))

You can easily scale your application. No more unmanageable monoliths.

Resolving dependencies manually
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Let’s say you created a generalized grid component and want to reuse it
in a few places in your project, e.g. news list, user list, etc. With
Keechma it’s trivial to create different versions of a component, each
mapped to its own dependencies:

.. code-block:: clojure

    (def system
      (ui/system
        {:user-grid (ui-component/resolve-subscription-dep
                      grid-component :list user-list)
         :news-grid (ui-component/resolve-subscription-dep
                      grid-component :list news-list))})

Any dependencies left unresolved manually will be handled automatically.

--------------

Keechma’s UI system allows you to reuse components, organize them into
sub-systems and to scale your code base — all without having to build
both smart *and* dumb components. All Keechma’s components are both dumb
and decoupled; everything is injected from outside.

Here are the UI system `API
docs </api/keechma/keechma_ui-component/>`__.
